17.50.280 Storage and parking of vehicles and trailers.
A. For any vehicle or trailer that is used principally for commercial purposes, it is unlawful for any person to store or park more than one such vehicle or trailer outside of a fully enclosed garage on any lot in a residential zoning district or in any right-of-way in a residential zoning district.
B. 
    1. Unless the vehicle or trailer is parked or stored in a fully enclosed garage, it is unlawful for any person to store or park a vehicle or trailer on any lot in a residential zoning district or in any right-of-way in a residential zoning district that exceeds any of the following:
        a. A gross vehicle weight rating (GVWR) of 12,000 lbs. or more for a vehicle;
        b. A gross trailer weight rating (GTWR) over 5,000 lbs. for a trailer;
        c. A height of 10 feet from top to bottom; or
        d. A length of 22 feet from front to back.
    2. The restrictions in subsection B. shall not apply to recreational vehicles. For purposes of this section, a RECREATIONAL VEHICLE is defined as a motor vehicle or trailer, including a motorhome, campervan, travel trailer, camper trailer, popup camper, or truck camper, designed primarily for use as temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
    3. For the purposes of the measurement of vehicle or trailer dimensions, the height of a vehicle or trailer shall be the vertical distance between the lowest part of the tires of the measured vehicle or trailer to the top of the highest part of the vehicle or trailer. The length of a vehicle or trailer shall be the horizontal distance between the front edge of the vehicle or trailer to the rear edge of the vehicle or trailer. For purposes of these measurements, accessories, attachments and materials fixed or carried upon such vehicle or trailer, including boats, shall be considered part of the vehicle or trailer, with the exception of aerial antennas and wakeboard towers. For purposes of this section, a WAKEBOARD TOWER is defined as a tower designed to elevate the pulling position of an attached rope, allowing a rider utilizing the rope to launch and stay in the air longer reducing the pull downwards. A wakeboard tower includes accessories, such as racks, speakers, lights, and mirrors, attached to the tower.
C. It is unlawful for any person to store or park a commercial vehicle or trailer used for hauling explosives, gasoline, liquefied petroleum products, toxic or hazardous materials in a residential zoning district, on any lot that is adjacent to a residential zoning district, or in any right-of-way that is adjacent to a residential zoning district, unless the vehicle or trailer is temporarily parked for the purpose of unloading or dispensing.
D. 
    1. Up to five vehicles and/or trailers may be temporarily parked in a residential zoning district in conjunction with provision of service to a lot in a residential zoning district pursuant to one of the following situations:
        a. For construction activities that do not require a building permit where the construction activities are 14 calendar days or less;
        b. Where a building permit has been issued, for construction activities but no longer than 180 days after the building permit is first issued;
        c. For delivery services, including mail, parcel, furniture, and appliance delivery;
        d. For vehicle towing services;
        e. For landscaping services, including tree trimming or removal services, where the services are seven calendar days or less;
        f. For household moving services, where the services are seven calendar days or less; and
        g. For emergency services.
    2. If no more than five vehicles and/or trailers are temporarily parked in a residential zoning district in conjunction with provision of service to a lot in a residential zoning district pursuant to one of the situations in subsections D.1.a. through D.1.g., then the provisions in subsections A. through C. of § 17.50.280 are not applicable to those vehicles and/or trailers that are temporarily parked.
E. It is unlawful for any person to store or park a vehicle or trailer in any right-of-way that does not have affixed thereto an unexpired license plate.
F. It is unlawful for any person to store or park a vehicle or trailer in violation of any other section of this Municipal Code. The storage and parking of any vehicle or trailer must also be in compliance with all other sections of this Municipal Code.
G. It is unlawful for any person to store or park a vehicle or trailer in the boulevard, across a sidewalk, or within the required sight triangle as provided in § 17.50.335.
H. It is unlawful for any person to store or park a recreational vehicle or trailer in an off-street parking stall that is required by this Municipal Code to be a parking stall for a passenger vehicle.
I. For any lot occupied by a dwelling or any lot in a residential or commercial zoning district, it is unlawful for any person to store or park a vehicle or trailer on the lot if the vehicle or trailer, when combined with the principal and accessory buildings, occupies more of the lot than allowed for under the district lot coverage provisions.
J. For any lot occupied by a dwelling or any lot in a residential or commercial zoning district, it is unlawful for any person to store or park a vehicle or trailer on the lot unless the vehicle or trailer is stored or parked on a graveled or hard surfaced parking or storage pad in order to eliminate dust, mud, and weeds. Parking areas that are required to be paved pursuant to § 17.50.270I. may serve as parking/storage pads as long as the parking areas are as large in length and width as the vehicle or trailer.
K. For any lot occupied by a dwelling or any lot in a residential or commercial zoning district, it is unlawful for any vehicle or trailer that is to remain stationary for more than 72 hours to serve as temporary or permanent sleeping quarters for any person.
L. The provisions in this section shall not apply to vehicles or trailers utilized by the city and its contractors or by any public or private utility and its contractors in the course of a city or utility project.
(Ord. 6388, 2020; Ord. 3913, 2003; Ord. 3753, 2001; Ord. 2872, 1991; prior code Appendix A, Art. V (§ 6))

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Rapid City Municipal Code is current through Ordinance 6596, passed January 2, 2024.
Disclaimer: The city has the official version of the Rapid City Municipal Code. Users should contact the city for ordinances passed subsequent to the ordinance cited above.

City Website: www.rcgov.org

Hosted by Code Publishing Company, A General Code Company.